<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
    <meta charset="utf-8"/>
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1"/>
    <title>Introduction</title>
  </head>
  <body><article>
    <h2 id="what-is-rheo?">What is Rheo?</h2>
    <p>The simple answer is that Rheo (<em>ree-oh</em>) is a new and more flexible way to produce and publish digital documents. The less simple answer is that Rheo is a typesetting and static site engine based on <a href="https://typst.app/">Typst</a>. This guide explains both <em>how</em> to use Rheo, and <em>why</em> it might be for you.</p>
    <p>Rheo allows you to produce a website, a fixed-size document, and an adaptive document from a single set of source Typst files. It allows you to do something similar to <a href="https://www.latex-project.org/">LaTeX</a>—except that Typst is <em>much</em> simpler to write, and we can produce a greater number of formats with it. The documentation that you are reading now, for example, was typeset with Rheo. As a result, you can read it as:</p>
    <ul>
      <li><a href="https://rheo.ohrg.org">HTML</a> - as a website for browsers.</li>
      <li><a href="https://rheo.ohrg.org/rheo-docs.pdf">PDF</a> - as a fixed-size document for printing.</li>
      <li><a href="https://nota-lang.github.io/bene/?preload=https%3A%2F%2Frheo.ohrg.org%2Frheo-docs.epub">EPUB</a> - as an adaptive document for e-readers.</li>
    </ul>
    <h2 id="who-should-use-rheo?">Who should use Rheo?</h2>
    <p>If you write anything as simple as a blog or as complex as a dissertation or monograph in Typst, Rheo enables you to publish it in multiple formats. If you are willing to learn <a href="https://typst.app/docs/reference/syntax/">a little bit of syntax</a>, you can turn a piece of writing into a website, an adaptive document, and/or a printable document.</p>
    <p>Some of the things you can write and publish with Rheo include:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>A blog</li>
      <li>A paper</li>
      <li>A dissertation</li>
      <li>A book manuscript</li>
      <li>A novel</li>
      <li>A textbook</li>
      <li>Technical documentation</li>
    </ul>
    <p>Rheo is for anyone who has ever spent regrettable hours formatting citatons, fighting with LaTeX, who has experienced the limitations of Markdown, or who wants to benefit from the richer writing experience that Typst makes possible (more on this in the next section). It is for students and teachers, humanists and scientists, bloggers and novelists.</p>
    <p>If you have only ever used Microsoft Word to author text, or haven’t heard the phrase ‘markup language’ before, we recommend first familiarizing yourself with Typst via the <a href="https://typst.app/docs/tutorial/">excellent tutorial</a>. This should give you a good intuition for what Typst is—a markup language similar to but also more powerful than Markdown—and why you might want to use Rheo to typeset your documents.</p>
  

</article></body></html>